Infodev doc review (#944)
IntelPython/dpctl: CONTRIBUTING.md

- open a [pull request](https://github.com/IntelPython/dpctl/compare) from changes committed to your fork
of `dpctl`

> **NOTE:** Make sure to check the box ``"[x] Allow edits from maintainers"`` to allow the proper functioning
> of automation bots. See [Working with forks](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/allowing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork) for more details.

# Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->
- [Mechanical Source Issues](#mechanical-source-issues)
  - [Source Code Formatting](#source-code-formatting)
    - [C/C++ Code Style](#cc-code-style)
    - [Python Code Style](#python-code-style)
    - [Setting Up a Pre-commit](#setting-up-a-pre-commit)
    - [C/C++ File Headers](#cc-file-headers)
    - [Python* File Headers](#python-file-headers)
  - [Security](#security)
    - [Bandit](#bandit)
  - [Code Coverage](#code-coverage)
  - [Error Reporting and Logging](#error-reporting-and-logging)
    - [Optional use of the Google* logging library (glog*)](#optional-use-of-the-google-logging-library-glog)

# Mechanical Source Issues

## Source Code Formatting

### C/C++ Code Style

> We use a [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) code formatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) code formatter.
```

"a" does not seem appropriate here (does not pass the replacement with "one" test). We should not use any oarticle to convey a matter-of-fact statement.

> We use a [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) code formatter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) for C++ code formatting.
```

To install, run:
```bash
conda install clang-tools
```

> Revision: `10.0.1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- `clang-tools` revision used: `10.0.1`
```

     libsyclinterface/helper/source/*.cpp
```

> > **NOTE:** It is easier to use `pre-commit` and the `clang-format` hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** We recommend to use `pre-commit` that invokes `clang-format` among other linters as configured.
```

> > **NOTE:** It is easier to use `pre-commit` and the `clang-format` hook.

Reviewer 2: @alexandraepan Yes, let us go with it.

### Python Code Style

We use the following Python code style tools:

> - [black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) code formatter.

Reviewer 2: I prefer we remove the versions of the tools from the contributing.md and instead ask people to look at the [.pre-commit-config.yaml](https://github.com/alexandraepan/dpctl/blob/infodev-doc-review/.pre-commit-config.yaml) file. We will almost always forget to keep the contributing.md updated every time we update the the pre-commit-config.yaml.

Reviewer: agreed

Author: done

///
//===----------------------------------------------------------------------===//
```
---
> **NOTE:**
- The `-*- C++ -*-` string on the first line tells Emacs* that
  it is a C++ file. The string is only needed for `*.h` headers and
  should be omitted for `*.cpp` files. Without the string, Emacs* assumes the
  file is a C header.
- The copyright year must be updated every calendar year.
- Each comment line should be a max of 80 chars.
- A Doxygen `\file` tag describing the contents of the file must be provided.
  Note that the `\file` tag is inside a Doxygen comment block. It is
  defined by the `///` comment marker instead of the `//` comment marker used in the
  rest of the header.

---

### Python* File Headers

> Every Python* and Cython* file should only include the following license header:

Author: @oleksandr-pavlyk It's recommended to use it without anything else. This is a non-exhaustive reference for trademarked company names, brands, or products. Let me know if you need a link to these guidelines.

> Every Python* and Cython* file should only include the following license header:

Reviewer: @alexandraepan Escaping the asterisk does not cause escape character to render, see https://github.com/IntelPython/dpctl/blob/64a7f6726a5468959c190678f40141d84ae65e57/CONTRIBUTING.md#python-file-headers

Escaping helps markdown renderer. Compare renderings of "not escaped" markdown vs. escaped one:

| | **not escaped** | **escaped** |
| --: | --- | --- |
**source** | ``**Every Python* and Cython* file**`` |  ``**Every Python\*and Cython\* file**`` |
**rendered** |  **Every Python* and Cython* file** |  **Every Python\*and Cython\* file** |

Github markdown renderer appears to be handle the simple unescaped asterisks followed by spaces well:

| | **not escaped** | **escaped** |
| --: | --- | --- |
**source** | ``Every Python* and Cython* file`` |  ``Every Python\*and Cython\* file`` |
**rendered** |  Every Python* and Cython* file |  Every Python\*and Cython\* file |

but it may be by happenstance.

# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
```

The copyright year should be updated every calendar year.

## Security

### Bandit

> We use [Bandit*](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit) to find common security issues
> in the Python* code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [Bandit\*](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit) to find common security issues
in the Python\* code.
```

To install, run:
```bash
pip install bandit
```

> Revision: `1.7.0`

Author: @oleksandr-pavlyk what do you think about presenting this information as a note?

Before each commit, run:
```bash
bandit -r dpctl -lll
```

## Code Coverage

Code coverage, for both C and Python sources in dpctl, is generated for each
pull request (PR). A PR cannot be merged if it leads to a drop in the code

> coverage by more than five percentage points. Therefore, write
> unit tests for your changes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coverage by more than five percentage points. Therefore, please supplement code changes with appropriate tests. 
```

Reviewer 2: So we went from brash "*Ergo, do not forget to write unit tests for your changes.*" to formal "*Therefore, write
unit tests for your changes.*" to downright humble request "*Therefore, please supplement code changes with appropriate tests.*"  :laughing:

Author: @diptorupd Fair enough but we do not use "please" in the documentation. What about: 
```suggestion
Therefore, supplement code changes with appropriate tests.
```

Reviewer: Ok, let's keep the original suggestion.

To check the code coverage for your code, follow these steps:

1. Install dependencies for C/C++ source.

>     For C/C++ source, we require `lcov`, `llvm-cov`, and `llvm-profdata`. `llvm-cov` and `llvm-profdata` 
>     should be version 11.0 or higher. If you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For C/C++ source, we require `lcov`, `llvm-cov`, and `llvm-profdata`. `llvm-cov` and `llvm-profdata` 
    that are version 11.0 or higher. If you
```

Reviewer: > How about just:

Must better! Thanks @diptorupd

Author: Is it okay if I change it to: 
```suggestion
    For C/C++ source,  `lcov`, `llvm-cov` (>=11.0), and `llvm-profdata` (>=11.0) are required.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍

Reviewer: Please make sure that the trailing "If you" does not get lost.

    have multiple `llvm-cov` tools installed, set the `LLVM_TOOLS_HOME`
    environment variable to make sure the correct one is used to generate
    coverage.

> 2. Install dependencies for Python* sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install dependencies for Python\* sources.
```

Reviewer 2: Why the forward slash? Seems to render fine without that.

Reviewer: Until such a time that somebody adds another asterisk in the same text block. The intent of this asterisk is to convey that Python is a registered name not owned by us. The escape backslash makes it explicit that asterisk here is not meant for italicizing.

>     To generate the coverage data for dpctl Python* sources,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To generate the coverage data for dpctl Python\* sources,
```

    coverage html
    ```

    The code coverage builds the C sources with debug symbols. For this
    reason, the coverage script builds the package in `develop` mode of
    `setup.py`.

    The coverage results for the C and Python* sources are printed to the
    terminal during the build (C API) and pytest execution (Python*).

>     The detailed coverage reports for the C API are saved to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The detailed coverage reports for the `libsyclinterface` library are saved to the
```

>     The coverage results for the C and Python* sources are printed to the
>     terminal during the build (C API) and pytest execution (Python*).
>     The detailed coverage reports for the C API are saved to the
>     `dpctl-c-api-coverage` directory. The Python* coverage reports are saved to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The coverage results for the C and Python\* sources are printed to the
    terminal during the build (C API) and pytest execution (Python\*).
    The detailed coverage reports for the C API are saved to the
    `dpctl-c-api-coverage` directory. The Python\* coverage reports are saved to
```

>        ^
>    1 error generated.
>    ```
>    The error is related to the `tcl` package. Uninstall the `tcl`
> package to resolve it.

## Error Reporting and Logging

The SyclInterface library responds to the `DPCTL_VERBOSITY` environment variable that controls the severity level of errors printed to the console.
Specify one of the following severity levels (in increasing order of severity): `warning` and `error` by running:

```bash
export DPCTL_VERBOSITY=warning
```

Messages of a given severity are shown not only in the console for that severity but also for the higher severity. For example, the severity level `warning` outputs severity errors for `error` and `warning` to the console.

> ### Optional use of the Google* logging library (glog*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional use of the Google\* logging library (glog\*)
```

> The dpctl error handler for libsyclinterface can be optionally configured to use [glog*](https://github.com/google/glog). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dpctl error handler for libsyclinterface can be optionally configured to use [glog\*](https://github.com/google/glog). 
```

> To use glog*, complete the following steps:
> 
> 1. Install glog* package of the latest version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use glog\*, complete the following steps:

1. Install glog\* package of the latest version
```

```bash
conda install glog
```

> 2. Build dpctl with the glog* support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Build dpctl with the glog\* support
```

```bash
python scripts/build_locally.py --oneapi --glog
```

> 3. Use `dpctl._diagnostics.syclinterface_diagnostics(verbosity="warning", log_dir=None)` context manager to switch library diagnostics on for a block of a Python* code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use `dpctl._diagnostics.syclinterface_diagnostics(verbosity="warning", log_dir=None)` context manager to switch library diagnostics on for a block of a Python\* code.
```

Messages of a given severity are shown not only in the console for that severity but also for the higher severity. For example, the severity level `warning` outputs severity errors for `error` and `warning` to the console.

### Optional use of the Google logging library (glog)

The dpctl error handler for libsyclinterface can be optionally configured to use [glog](https://github.com/google/glog). 

To use glog, complete the following steps:

1. Install glog package of the latest version

```bash
conda install glog
```
2. Build dpctl with the glog support

```bash
python scripts/build_locally.py --oneapi --glog
```

> 1. Use the `dpctl._diagnostics.syclinterface_diagnostics(verbosity="warning", log_dir=None)` context manager to switch library diagnostics on for a block of a Python code.

Reviewer: Should this actually be item 3, instead of item 1?

DPCTLService_InitLogger(const char *app_name, const char *log_dir);
DPCTLService_ShutdownLogger();
```
Where:
 - `*app_name` - the name of the executable file (prefix for logs of various levels).
 - `*log_dir` - a directory path for writing log files. Specifying `NULL` results in logging to ``std::cerr``.

> **_NOTE:_**

> > If `InitGoogleLogging` is not called before the first use of the glog*, the library self-initializes to the `logtostderr` mode, and log files are not generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If `InitGoogleLogging` is not called before the first use of the glog\*, the library self-initializes to the `logtostderr` mode, and log files are not generated.
```
